Chapter 8 Raising of the Tax 
 
(Wilkenson, Mr. O'Hara's ex-overseer, comes to Tara with his newly- 
married wife. They intend to buy Tara, for they know the "turbulence  
Tara now is in.)  
SCARLETT: Why, Emmy Sladdly EMMY  
SLADDLY: Yes'm, it's me.  
SCARLETT: Stop! 
WILKENSON: You haven't forgotten your old overseer, have you?  
Huh? Well, Emmy is Mrs. Wilkenson now...  
SCARLETT: Get off those steps, you trashy wench. Get off this land! 
WILKENSON: You can't speak that way to my wife. SCARLETT:  
Why? High time you made her your wife. Who baptized your other  
brats after you killed my mother?  
WILKENSON: We came out here to pay a call. A friendly call, and 
talk a little business with old friends.  
SCARLETT: Friends. When were we ever friends with the likes of  
you? 
WILKENSON: Still high and mighty ain't you? Well, I 
know all about you. I know your father's turned idiot. You 
can't pay your taxes. And I come out to offer to buy the 
place from you. To make you a right good offer. Emmy's 
got a ^hankering to live here. 
SCARLETT: Get off this place, you dirty Yankee! 
WILKENSON: You bum-trucking, high-flying Irish will 
find out who's running things around here when you get 
sold out for taxes. I'll buy this place, lock, stock and barrel 
and I'll live in it. But I'll wait for the ^sheriff's sale. 
SCARLETT: That's all ofTara you'll ever get. 
(Scarlett throws the ball to Wilkenson's face. of soil which 
Ashyley put in her hand.) 
WILKENSON: You'll be sorry for that. We'll be back! 
(Mr. O'Hara mounts his horse. In a fame of anger, he tries 
to cut the way and catch the Wilkensons.) 
Mr. O'HARA: I saw you holding on to the carriage! 
SCARLETT: Paw, come back! 
Mr.O'HARA: Yankee coward! 
SCARLETT: Paw! 
(Mr. O'Hara falls down to the ground. He never rises again. 
Days after...) 
SCARLETT: Oh, Mammie, Mammie. 
MAMMIE: You've been brave so long, Miss Scarlett. You 
just got to go on being brave. Think about your Paw, like 
he used to be. 
 
SCARLETT: I can't think about Paw. I can't think of 
anything but that three hundred dollars. 
MAMMIE: Ain't no good thinking about that. Miss 
Scarlett. Ain't nobody got that much money. Nobody but 
that Yankee's and the scallow-wags got that much money 
now. 
SCARLETT: Rhett! 
MAMMIE: Who that? A Yankee? 
SCARLETT: Oh, Mammie, I'm so thin and pale and...I 
haven't any clothes. Go up to the attic Mammie, and get 
down Ma's old box of dress patterns. 
MAMMIE: What are you up to in Miss Ellen's fortier? 
SCARLETT: You're going to make me a new dress! 
MAMMIE: Not with Miss Ellen's fortier, not while I got 
breath in my body! 
SCARLETT: Great balls of fire, they're my fortiers now. 
I'm going to Atlanta for that three hundred dollars, and 
I've got to go looking like a queen. 
MAMMIE: Who's going to Atlanta with you? 
SCARLETT: I'm going alone. 
MAMMIE: That's what you think. I'm going to Atlanta 
with you, with you and that new dress. 
SCARLETT: Now Mammie darling... 
MAMMIE: No use to try and sweet talk me Miss Scarlett, 
I knows you ever since I put the first pair of diapers on 
you. I says I was going to Atlanta with you, and going I is! 
(Atlanta prison. Rhett Butler and the prison Major are 
playing cards at a table.) 
MAN: Sir, there's a lady to see Captain Butler. Says she's your sister. 
MAJOR: Another sister? This is a jail, not a "'harem, Captain Butler. 
MAN:No, Major, she ain't one of those. This one's got her mammie  
with her. 
RHETT: She has? I'd like to see this one, Major, without her  
mammie. MAJOR: Hmm... 
RHETT: Let's see, my losses for the afternoon come to what? Hmm...  
three hundred and fourty. My debts do mount up, don't they, Major? 
MAJOR: All right, Corporal. Show Captain Butler's sister to his cell. 
RHETT: Thank you, Major...excuse me, gentlemen. MAJOR: It's  
hard to be strict with a man who loses money so pleasantly. 
(In the jail. Scarlett appears, dressing in beautiful green velvet.) 
SCARLETT: Rhett! 
RHETT: Scarlett! My dear little sister. (to Corporal) It's all right  
Corporal, my sister has brought me now files or saws. Can I really  
kiss you now? SCARLETT: On the forehead like a good brother.  
RHETT: No thanks, I'll wait and hope for better things. SCARLETT:  
Oh, Rhett, I was so distressed when I heard you were in jail. I simply  
couldn't sleep for thinking. It's not true they're going to hang you. 
RHETT: Would you be sorry? 
SCARLETT: Oh, Rhett... 
RHETT: Well, don't worry. Yeah, The Yankees have 
trumped up some charge against me but what they're 
really after is my money. They seem to think I made off 
with a Confederate treasury. 
SCARLETT: Well, did you? 
RHETT: What a leading question. Let's not talk about 
"sordid things like money. How good of you to come and 
see me. And how pretty you look. 
SCARLETT: Oh, Rhett, how you do run on teasing a 
country girl like me. 
RHETT: Thank Heaven's you're not in rags, I'm tired of 
seeing women in rags. Turn around. You look good enough 
to eat. Prosperous, too. 
SCARLETT: Thank you, I've been doing very well. 
Everybody's doing well at Tara, only, I got so bored, I just 
thought I'd treat myself with to visit to town. 
RHETT: You're a heartless creature but that's part of your 
charm. Though you've got more charm than the law 
allows. 
SCARLETT: Now I did come here to talk senseless about 
me, Rhett. I came because I was so miserable at the 
thought of you in trouble. Oh, I know I was mad at you 
the night you left me on the road to Tara, and I still haven't 
forgiven you. 
RHETT: Oh, Scarlett, don't say that. 
SCARLETT: Well, I must admit I might not be alive now. Only for  
you. And when I think of myself with anything I could possibly hope  
for, and not a care in the world, and you where here in this horrid jail.  
And not even a human jail, Rhett, a horse jail. But listen to me, try to  
make jokes when, when I really want to cry. And in a minute I shall  
cry. 
RHETT: Scarlett, can it be possible that...  
SCARLETT: Can what be possible, Rhett? 
RHETT: That you've grown a woman's heart? A real woman's heart. 
SCARLETT: I have Rhett. I know I have.  
RHETT: You know it's worth being in jail just to hear you say that.It's  
well worth it.  
(Rhett grasps Scarlett's hands. And suddenly, he reads the callous skin of her  
hands. This is a pair of hard-working hands.) 
You can drop the moonlight and '''magnolia, Scarlett. So things have been  
going well at tara, have they?  
SCARLETT: Yes...RHETT: What have you been doing with your hands?  
SCARLETT: It's just that, I went riding last week without my gloves... 
RHETT: These don't belong to a lady, you've been working with  
them like a field hand. Why did you lie to me, and what are you really  
up to?  
SCARLETT: Now Rhett... 
RHETT: In another minute, I'd almost believed you'd cared something. 
SCARLETT: But I do care! 
RHETT: Suppose we get down to the truth. You want something  
from me and you want it badly enough to put on quite a show on your  
velvets. What is it, money?  
SCARLETT: I want three hundred dollars to pay the taxes on Tara. Oh  
Rhett, I did lie to you when I said everything was all right. Things are  
just as bad as they possibly could be. And you've got millions, Rhett.  
RHETT: What collateral are you offering?  
SCARLETT: My ear bobs...  
RHETT: Not interested.  
SCARLETT: Mortgage on Tara...  
RHETT: What would I do with a farm?  
SCARLETT: You wouldn't lose, I'd pay you back after next  
year's cotton. 
RHETT: Not good enough. Have you nothing better?  
SCARLETT: You once said you loved me. If you still love me, Rhett... 
RHETT: You haven't forgotten that I'm not a marrying man. 
SCARLETT: No. I haven't forgotten, RHETT: You're not worth three  
hundred dollars. You'll never mean anything but misery to any man.  
SCARLETT: Go on, insult me, I don't care what you say, only give  
me the money! I won't let Tara go, I can't let it go while there's a  
breath left in my body. Oh, Rhett, won't you please give me the  
money? 
RHETT: I couldn't give you the money if I wanted to. My funds are  
in Liverpool, not in Atlanta. If I tried drawing a draft, the Yankees  
would be on me like a duck on a junebug. So you see my dear,  
you've abased yourself to no purpose. Stop it! You want  
the Yankees to see like this? SCARLETT: Take your hands off me,  
you dunk! You know what I am going to say before I started. You  
knew you wouldn't lend me the money and yet, and yet, you let me go  
on. 
RHETT: I enjoyed hearing what you had to say. Cheer up, you can  
come to my hanging and I'll remember you in my will. 
SCARLETT: I'll come to your hanging. The only thing I'm afraid of is  
they won't hang you in time to pay the taxes on Tara. 